Details
What do I have to pay attention to?
confidential information!
no information / mention to customers before 12.04.2023

Supplementary FAQ's to:
Price adjustment as of 01.06.2023 (PA)
ER2S Price adjustment as of 01.06.2023 (PA)

1 The prices for my electricity tariff are going up? Why? Are you lining your pockets on the backs of customers and the state?
first check whether the customer has an actual increase
E.ON also had to purchase future energy volumes at much higher wholesale prices last year.
that means, E.ON procures the energy quantities partly already months in advance.
Price developments on the wholesale markets therefore have a delayed effect on end-customer prices.
but E.ON closely monitors developments on wholesale markets
fair pricing is very important to us
both rising and falling cost components are taken into account when setting prices
 Note:
more info on the composition of energy costs at eon.de/market-situation
further information on calculation not possible for reasons of competition

2 Will the price increase change my budget billing?
Do not actively ask customers to change their budget billing amount
Please pay close attention to the text in the PA letter on "What does this mean for your budget billing amount?
There are two main case classes
1st case class: PA with budget billing adjustment
in the PA letter, the new budget billing amount is printed with,
"Based on the new prices, we have adjusted your budget billing amount. In doing so, we have also taken into account the regulations on the electricity price brake. From <1st regular date after PA date> your new budget billing amounts to <budget billing new with price change (and price brake) gross> Euro (gross) You can also see your new budget billing schedule with payment dates on the last page."
2nd case class: PA without budget billing adjustment.
"Due to your new prices, we recommend that you adjust your budget billing. You are welcome to use the My E.ON service portal for this purpose. If you are relieved by the regulations of the electricity price brake, we will probably inform you
Please check when the next regular bill (TR) is due.
The customer will receive the new budget with the timely TR, based on the new prices and the energy price brake (EPB) relief.
if the customer does not have a TR due and his new prices are above the EPB reference price (electricity > 40 ct/kWh)
a new campaign will probably be sent to the customer in May.
Note:
Recommend to the customer eon.de/marktlage for further detailed information (including "Relief Calculator".
My E.ON, use price calculator

3 Are you allowed to change the discounts at all without customer approval?
Yes, we are allowed to do that as a supplier, i.e. in the course of a price adjustment.
in the case of special contracts, the legal justification lies in the GTC's
in case of basic supply, the legal justification lies in §13 Strom-/GasGVV (Electricity/Gas Ordinance)
if the general prices change, then the payments on account due after the price change can be adjusted accordingly with the pre-hundredth rate of the price change.
4
I did not want to change my budget billing amount. Can I still change my budget billing amount now?
Your budget billing can of course be checked and adjusted
Note:
Reference to My E.ON
Customer can deliberately change the budget billing amount after receiving the PA letter, provided all information is available.
The "new" budget billing according to the PA letter may never come into effect if the budget billing is changed in good time.

5 I have changed my budget billing amount recently, does this no longer apply?
If the customer has changed his budget billing between the processing and the dispatch of the letters, this applies until the new budget billing according to the letter comes into force.
Adjustments by the customer are only effective during the transition period
Afterwards, the newly determined budget billing amount applies, provided no further adjustments are made
The budget billing value in the EDG systems is checked when the letters are sent and corrected if necessary.

6 The new budget billing seems too low to me, is that correct?
Electricity price brake - Possible customer queries & argumentation aids (FAQ)
see there under FAQ 9 - "Unusual budget billing amounts: My new budget billing amount seems too high or too low. My budget billing schedule contains unusual budget billing amounts."

7 Where do they get the previous budget billing plan and to which letter does my "bill number" belong?
this invoice number is an internal number and is generated from the last adjustment to the budget billing amount
Hint:
Number is not relevant for the customer
if necessary, check the contract account to see when the last budget billing change took place.

8 Where does the forecast annual consumption come from that is used for the energy price brake?
Immediate help December 2022 - argumentation aids (FAQ
see there under FAQ - 10 - "What is the September forecast value/forecast consumption?"

9 Do I have to tell you my meter reading now?
No, we will calculate the meter reading as of June 01, 2023 based on your previous consumption.
Note:
if customer wants, he can provide exact meter reading as of May 31, 2023
feel free to recommend My E.ON on eon.de or you (agent) enter meter reading into the system

10 In my PA letter they told me a follow up information by the end of May on the markdown & the price break? When is it coming? Why hasn't it arrived yet?
You will only receive a follow-up communication if your new price is above the reference value.
please check with customer if new electricity prices are > 40ct/kWh
if the customer is due for a periodic bill by 30.06.2023, the new budget & PB info will be included in it
please check date for periodic billing and inform customer of date
if the customer does not have an upcoming TR and is priced above the reference price, we will probably send him an EPB letter with the new budget by the end of May.

11 I have little money and I don't know how to pay the high energy costs.
I will be glad to help you, let's see together how you can be helped.
Note: Article "Payment difficulties due to energy crisis - energy price development - high energy prices "

12 I am no longer your customer or no longer in the affected E.ON product as of June 01, 2023. Why do I still get the letter?
we have written to all customers who were in a product with a price change from 07 March onwards
other changes could not be considered for sending the letter
if on 01 June 2023 no longer in the product/no longer a customer, then the letter is irrelevant.

13 Why did you send me these tables with your letter?
we are legally obliged to inform
we therefore provide responsible and secure information by letter and on eon.de
The transparency table explains clearly how the prices are made up.

14 I find this presentation very confusing. Does it have to be like this?
E.ON has done a lot to make the legal requirements as transparent and reader-friendly as possible.
What exactly do you find confusing? I would be happy to explain the exact details to you.
Note: Explain price adjustment letter/transparency table

15 When will the next price adjustment come my way?
Show empathy towards the customer
E.ON closely monitors developments on wholesale markets, fair pricing is very important to us
Wholesale electricity prices are still noticeably higher at times than they were before the start of the crisis in the fall of 2021
falling but also rising cost components are taken into account when setting prices
I cannot tell you when you will be affected by a further price adjustment.
the decisive factor for the price level in the future will be the development of the energy market in the longer term.

16 Why do we have different prices even though we live close to each other and have the same contract?
Price adjustments are made on the basis of various cost components and calculation assumptions
are products the same
are product features the same e.g. price guarantee
Date of contract conclusion or last price adjustment
Prices can also be consumption-dependent

17 I recently cancelled my contract with you, but would like to stay with you. Is that possible?
Check contract status
Status "in delivery" - cancellation not yet processed
Check open customer transactions to see whether notice has been given
Do not process, close customer transaction
Inform customer that delivery will continue
Status "cancelled"- cancellation already processed
unfortunately no: cancellation has already been carried out in the system on the end date
Cancellation/return of notice is no longer possible from a system point of view.
Household customers already in basic supply
Non-household customers already in substitute supply
activation of the old contract is therefore no longer possible
You will now be supplied under new conditions
due to the market situation, further price increases can probably be expected
The future price level will depend on the long-term development of the energy market.
Note: depending on NBA draw, the customer may be offered a new tariff (product advice)

18 I have received a price adjustment letter that my prices are going down. Is this a mistake?
no, this is not a mistake
E.ON also passes on cost reductions to its customers
you can see this in the price table in your letter

19 Why was my base price not changed, even though cost components have changed?
The composition of the base price is based on network charges, for example.
E.ON keeps the base price stable in order to comply with the legal requirements of the gas price brake (law of the "gas price brake" § 4 requirements for the design of natural gas supply contracts; information obligations of natural gas suppliers)
Cost components change in the background despite legal requirements
Please be prepared for the fact that prices may change in the future.
Note: Base price reductions will be passed on

20 How does the EEG levy affect my contract?
EEG levy

21 Isn't the switch to green power just an advertising strategy by a company that could do much more?
It is important to E.ON to responsibly shape the path to a green energy future
that's why E.ON has made a conscious decision to implement the switch to 100% green power for residential customers
we are already offering all interested customers the opportunity to switch to green electricity and green natural gas tariffs
you can find out more about our sustainability strategy at: https://www.eon.com/de/ueber-uns/nachhaltigkeit/strategie.html

22 My price adjustment letter says that you are now switching my product to green power? Surely that's where this price change comes from?
The price adjustment takes into account all the changes in the electricity price, which E.ON will explain to you in detail in the letter.
change (both increase and decrease) therefore results only to a fraction from the switch to electricity from renewable sources
other factors such as generation prices on the market have a much greater influence

23 Your prices in a price adjustment letter are much higher than on the comparison portals. Have the price brakes not yet been taken into account in this?
E.ON has also had to purchase future energy volumes at much higher wholesale prices in recent months.
E.ON procures energy volumes months in advance to ensure greater security of supply
Price developments on wholesale markets therefore generally have a delayed effect on end-customer prices.
E.ON closely monitors developments on wholesale markets; fair pricing is very important to us.
You can be sure that declining cost components will also be taken into account when setting prices
in our tariff calculators, for example on eon.de, we take price brakes into account as soon as possible
[internal note: at present the tariff information is still given without taking price brakes into account].
we have developed an online calculator for you, with which the possible relief amounts can be determined:
https://www.eon.de/de/pk/erdgas/gaspreisbremse.html
Possible price reductions from other providers:
We are unable to comment on any reductions that may have been announced or on the purchasing behavior of other providers

24 But in the media, consumers were sometimes advised to object to price adjustments?
Focus of reporting the draft law's prohibition of abuse on price brakes, is to protect consumers from excessive price adjustments
important instrument to protect customers from individual, possibly dubious suppliers
E.ON complies with legal requirements as a matter of course
(Optional): Individual media reports sometimes did not make background clear enough

25 Why do I get a price increase when prices on the stock market are falling?
📩 Electricity price brake - Possible customer inquiries & argumentation aids (FAQ)

26 Why are your products cheaper on your website eon.de than directly from customer service?
We offer different products for each of our sales channels.
Some of these are only valid for a short time and are structured with different modules, e.g., in terms of contract periods, price guarantee duration, and shares of renewable energies.
In addition, they have different labor prices and base prices, depending on the time of calculation, the applicable procurement costs, and other factors.
As a result, the individual products cannot usually be compared directly with one another.
"I will be happy to advise you on which product suits you best [conduct tariff consultation; NBA if necessary].
You are also very welcome to take a look at our product selection on eon.de - even as an existing customer: there we usually have three interesting products with different features for you to choose from, which you can conclude quite conveniently online."

27 No extra price adjustment letter for new basic supply customers
New customers can also be included in the basic supply after data deduction for price adjustment letter
these customers will not receive a price adjustment letter afterwards either
customers with basic supply are informed about price adjustments as required
Data required for this is determined in advance
For technical reasons, the data must be downloaded approx. 4-5 weeks before the mailing date.
all changes that take place after this date will not be taken into account
e.g. in case of relocation or product change
for new customers in the basic supply applies
the announcement notice is the relevant information
they receive contract confirmations with old and new prices exactly 6 weeks (42 days) before the new prices come into effect, i.e. in this case from 19.04. as a rule
an extra PA letter or a duplicate cannot be issued
some customers who have received a letter due to the energy price brake do not receive a PA letter
customers can be identified by the price time slice
Time slice: click instructions only for ER2S

28 On March 15, the E.ON Group announced good annual results for 2022. At the same time, E.ON has recently increased prices (PA 1.2. & 1.3.).
How does this fit together?
Explanation of the group result:
the 2022 group result comes from different business areas, the segment "customer solutions" is only a part of it
this is not only about the sale of electricity and gas, but also about our growing business with energy solutions for private customers and companies
Against the backdrop of the crisis, for example, we saw a significant increase in demand from all customer groups for sustainable energy solutions and products for decarbonization
for example photovoltaics, heat pumps or energy infrastructure solutions for companies
We stand by our customers as a reliable energy partner - especially during the energy crisis.
this is in no way contradictory to our economic situation
because while some suppliers simply stopped supplying their customers during the crisis, for example, we fulfilled our responsibility at all times.
Why did E.ON recently adjust its prices despite its good results?
because we procure our energy volumes on a longer-term basis, we were able to partially cushion the current massive price increases for our customers
Of course, like all other suppliers, we have to buy energy at much higher wholesale prices and pass some of the cost on to our customers.
the increased purchasing costs are therefore only reflected in the end customer prices with a time lag, and we cannot escape market developments in this respect.
For this reason, we have recently had to adjust the prices of certain contracts.
most of these customers have already benefited from favorable conditions over a longer period of time.
the price adjustment therefore basically reflects the development on the wholesale markets to date and relates exclusively to costs that we cannot influence ourselves
procurement costs and network charges have risen significantly and sooner or later we will have to pass these costs on to our customers
Incidentally, it is important for us to emphasize that, even after the adjustment, our prices are still well below the price peaks we have seen in recent times
Addition to inquiries regarding price reductions:
Generally, the development on the wholesale markets reaches the customers with a delay.
our customers can rely on us to reduce prices again as soon as we see an opportunity to do so
As always, we will inform our customers about price adjustments in a timely manner.
[Do not use for chat, social media & written communication; verbal only]:
Customers who have recently seen price increases may be more likely to see price reductions
However, the exact future market development cannot be reliably predicted today
[Note internally: Do not hold out the prospect of concrete price increases or reductions!]

29 Why are new customer offers more favorable than the basic supply inventory prices? Why do prices in the GV differ so much from the prices of new customer offers?
Prices in the basic supply (GV) are not one-to-one comparable with the prices for new customer products
in the GV we supply many existing customers - therefore we can purchase the corresponding energy quantities for a longer period of time
Price developments on the wholesale markets usually have a delayed effect on end customer prices.
This allows us to deliberately cushion price spikes for the benefit of our customers.
This means that if wholesale prices rise, this purchasing strategy helps to flatten out the price increase for end customers in the basic supply for the time being.
Accordingly, falling wholesale prices are not reflected in end-customer prices until somewhat later.
New customer products, on the other hand, are strongly geared to the situation in the procurement markets at the time the contract is concluded
because the associated energy is largely purchased at the conditions prevailing at the time
the respective market conditions are thus very directly reflected in the new customer offers
this applies to periods of falling prices, but also to periods of rising prices
Since the beginning of the energy crisis, for example, new customer offers from energy suppliers have often been more expensive than the basic supply.
in general, it goes without saying that fair pricing is very important to us
You can be sure that we always take both rising and falling cost components into account in our pricing, context menu

30 I have a price guarantee in my contract. Why did I get a price adjustment?
As a general rule, we naturally adhere to the statutory and contractually agreed requirements when it comes to price guarantees and contract terms.
Our customers can rely on this.
The contract term and the price guarantee term are two different points that do not relate to each other.
The price guarantee always applies until the end of its contractually agreed term with the customer for this purpose - our customers can rely on this.
However, a continuation of the contract does not mean that the price guarantee is automatically extended as well.
Regarding the end of the contract: After communication of a price adjustment (at least 6 weeks before it takes effect), affected customers generally have a special right of termination.
If the customer makes use of this right to terminate the contract at the next possible time, the contract ends accordingly, not at the next regular termination date.
